Hello students, it is given in the problem that
x raised to j omega, which is equal to
1 minus a square divided by 1 minus a raised
to minus j omega into 1 minus a e raised
to j omega for part a we want to find
the Sequence of x of n by partial fraction we
can write x, raise to j omega, as
that is x, raise to j omega, which
is equal to 1 by 1 minus. A e
raised to j omega plus 1 by 1 minus a
e raised to minus j omega taking in verse,
for you transform that is x n equal to a
raised to nu of n minus 1 by a word
raised to n of n minus 1. That is
x of n can be written as x of n
, which is equal to a raised to n.
U of n minus a raised 2 minus n?
U of n minus 1 mark- and this is
the sequence of x of n for part b.
We want to calculate the integral minus pi 2 pi
x, raise to j omega cos omega d omega
divided by 2 pi that is x, o n
, which is equal to 1 by 2 pi,
integral minus pi, 2 pi x e raise to
j omega e raised To j, omega n plus
j omega in omega, we have, from the
sequence a we can write x of 1, which
is equal to a minus 1 by a and x
of 1 equal to 0. By equation a now
, we can write x of 1, which is
equal to 1 by 2 pi, integral minus pi
, 2 pi x e raise to j omega into
e, raise to j, omega d, omega
markets, 1 and x of minus 1 equal to
integral minus pi. 2 pi 1 by 2 pi
e raise to j omega into e, raise to
minus j omega d omega market as to from 2
and 1. Add these equations together that is x
of 1 plus x of minus 1, which is
equal to 1 by 2 pi. Integral minus pi
2 pi x e raise to j omega into e
, raise to j omega plus e, raise to
minus j omega d omega. This can be written
as x of 1 plus x of minus 1,
which is equal to 1 by 2 pi integral minus
pi 2 pi x e, raised to j omega
2 cos omega t omega, that is equal to
1 by 2 pi, integral minus pi, 2
Pi x e, raise to j omega cos omega
d omega that is x of 1 plus x of
minus 1, divided by 2, that is equal
to a minus 1 by a divided by 2.
On calculation, we get the value of integral,
as which is equal to a square minus 1 divided
by 2. An i hope you find the video
useful. Thank you.